3.6.0 release materials (#332)
apache/james-project: src/homepage/_posts/2021-03-16-james-3.6.0.markdown

---
layout: post
title:  "Apache James Server 3.6.0"
date:   2021-03-16  15:16:30 +0200
categories: james update
---

The Apache James developers are pleased to announce James server 3.6.0 release.

Early adopters can [download it][download], any issue can be reported on our issue [tracker][tracker].

## Announcements

### Experimental support for JMAP RFC-8621 and deprecation of JMAP Draft

Since the last release we worked hard refreshing our JMAP implementation, implementing both [JMAP core][jmap-core],
[JMAP mail][jmap-mail] and the [JMAP over WebSocket][jmap-ws] specifications. Their support is considered experimental and

> early adopters' feedback is highly welcome.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
early adopters' feedback is highly welcomed.
```

> [JMAP Draft][jmap-draft] should be considered legacy, and will be removed in next releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[JMAP Draft][jmap-draft] should be considered legacy, and will be removed in the 3.7.0 release.
```

`the next releases` :  3.6.x are also releases :P

- JAMES-3405 Expose metrics of Guice servers over HTTP - enables easy Prometheus metrics collection
- JAMES-3407 Distributed server: Read-repairs for the mailbox entity
- JAMES-3428 Distributed server: Read-repairs for the mailbox counters entity
- JAMES-3139 Expose RabbitMQ channel & connection configuration
- JAMES-3441 Make possible and document Distributed Server setup with specialized instances
- JAMES-3337 Document the use of JWT
- JAMES-3399 Allow JSON logging with logback - enables structure logging with FluentBit
- JAMES-3396 WebAdmin should try to prevent RRT addresses redirection loops when possible
- JAMES-3402 JMAP MDN messages should have a Date header
- JAMES-3028 Distributed server: allow choosing whether blobs should be deduplicated
- JAMES-3196 CanSendFromImpl: enable to send email from aliases for SMTP and JMAP
- JAMES-3196 Add an IMAP SessionId to correlate logs
- JAMES-3502 DistributedServer: SSL and authentication support for RabbitMQ
- JAMES-3504 Metrics and log for POP3
- JAMES-3431 Optional DSN support
- JAMES-3202 Allow search index Reindexing without cleanup

### Changed

> - Switch to Java 11 for build and run

Reviewer 2: Isn't this big enough to warrant an entry in the Announcements ? (it could have large impacts for deployed systems)

- JAMES-3176 Rewritte MDN parsing with Parboiled scala (avoid asm library dependency clash within the Distributed Server)
- JAMES-3194 Rely on DTOConverter in TaskRoute
- JAMES-3430 Restructure message properties storage within Cassandra Mailbox. See upgrade instructions.
- JAMES-3435 Use EventSourcing to manage ACL - avoid SERIAL reads for ACL thus unlocking a performance enhancement for the Distributed James server. Read upgrade instructions.
- JAMES-2124 Sorts module declarations in reactors (thanks to Jean Helou)
- JAMES-3440 JMAP users can now avoid relying on ElasticSearch reads for basic listing operations thanks to the EmailQueryView 
- JAMES-3252 DomainList autoDection should be turned off by 
- JAMES-3192 Upgrade Apache configuration to 2.7
- JAMES-3492 Upgrade ElasticSearch dependency for DistributedServer to 7.10
- JAMES-2514 Upgrade Cassandra dependency for DistributedServer 3.11.3 -> 3.11.10
- JAMES-3497 Multiple dependencies upgrades
- JAMES-3499 Package LDAP in Distributed Server
- JAMES-3225 Set up of the Apache CI
- [REFACTORING] Switch most of the test suite to JUNIT 5

### Deprecated

> - HybridBlobStore. This will be removed after 3.6.0 release. Introduced to fasten small blob access, its usage could be

Reviewer 2: I don't use it but will it be removed in 3.6.1 or in 3.7.0 ? ( i assume the latter but ... )

- JAMES-3201 ReIndexing enhancements
- JAMES-3179 Fix UpdatableTickingClock thread safety issue
- MAILBOX-405 Renaming too much mailboxes at once was failing on top of the Cassandra mailbox
- JAMES-3513 Wrong UID dispatched on the EventBus for StoreMessageIdManager::setInMailboxes
- JAMES-3512 DigestUtil: close base64 encoding stream
- JAMES-3487 Allow setting on*Exception parameters for Bounce
- JAMES-3511 Solve java.util.NoSuchElementException: heartbeatHandler
- JAMES-3507 Fix broken IMAP APPEND literalSizeLimit option preventing from buffering large requests to files
- JAMES-3438 des-ambiguity error message for Email/set create Content-Transfer-Encoding rejection
- JAMES-3477 Fix NPE when concurrently updating MimeMessage
- JAMES-3444 Perform JMAP TransportChecks only when JMAP is enabled
- JAMES-3495 Cassandra mailbox: Reproduce and fix the null messageId bug
- JAMES-3490 maxUploadSize should come from configuration
- JAMES-1717 VacationMailet should not return answers when no or empty Reply-To header
- JAMES-1784 JMAP: Users with `_` in their names cannot download attachments

### Removed

> - HybridBlobStore. This will be removed after 3.6.0 release. Introduced to fasten small blob access, its usage could be

Reviewer 2: hmm so is it deprecated or removed ? :)

Author: It had been deprecated in 3.5.0 and removed before 3.6.0. I will clarify this.
